In more developed, closed or 'received' poetic forms, the rhyming scheme, meter and other elements of a poem are based on sets of rules:
    Sonnet -  Among the most common forms of poetry, popular from the Late Middle Ages on, is the sonnet, which by the 13th century had become standardized as fourteen lines following a set rhyme scheme and logical structure
    Shi - main type of Classical Chinese poetry. Within this form of poetry the most important variations are 'folk song' styled verse (yuefu) -- a folk ballad or a poem written in the folk ballad style, and the number of lines and the length of the lines could be irregular -- with poets like Shen Yue, 'old style' verse (gushi) with poets like Li Bai, 'modern style' verse (jintishi) -- regulate the tonal variations within a poem, including the use of set patterns of the four tones of Middle Chinese -- with poets like Du Fu. In all cases, rhyming is obligatory. 
    Villanelle -  The villanelle is a nineteen-line poem made up of five triplets with a closing quatrain; the poem is characterized by having two refrains, initially used in the first and third lines of the first stanza, and then alternately used at the close of each subsequent stanza until the final quatrain, which is concluded by the two refrains. The remaining lines of the poem have an AB alternating rhyme. The villanelle has been used regularly in the English language since the late 19th century by such poets as Dylan Thomas, W. H. Auden, and Elizabeth Bishop.
    Limerick  - A limerick is a poem that consists of five lines and is often humorous. Rhythm is very important in limericks for the first, second and fifth lines must have seven to ten syllables. However, the third and fourth lines only need five to seven. Lines 1, 2 and 5 rhyme with each other, and lines 3 and 4 rhyme with each other. Practitioners of the limerick included Edward Lear, Lord Alfred Tennyson, Rudyard Kipling, Robert Louis Stevenson
    Haiku -  Haiku is a popular form of unrhymed Japanese poetry, Generally written in a single vertical line, the haiku contains three sections totalling 17 on (morae), structured in a ---5 pattern
    Ode - Odes were first developed by poets writing in ancient Greek, such as Pindar, and Latin, such as Horace. Forms of odes appear in many of the cultures that were influenced by the Greeks and Latins.  The ode generally has three parts: a strophe, an antistrophe, and an epode. The strophe and the antistrophe of the ode possess similar metrical structures and, depending on the tradition, similar rhyme structures. In contrast, the epode is written with a different scheme and structure. Odes have a formal poetic diction and generally deal with a serious subject. The strophe and antistrophe look at the subject from different, often conflicting, perspectives, with the epode moving to a higher level to either view or resolve the underlying issues. Odes are often intended to be recited or sung by two choruses (or individuals), with the first reciting the strophe, the second the antistrophe, and both together the epode
    Free Verse -   a form of poetry that does not adhere to a strict metrical structure or rhyme scheme. It allows poets to experiment with line breaks, rhythm, and imagery, creating a unique and flexible structure that often mirrors the natural rhythms of speech. While it may include rhyme or meter, these elements are not used to structure the poem as a whole. 
 
In addition to specific forms of poems, poetry is often thought of in terms of different genres and subgenres. A poetic genre is generally a tradition or classification of poetry based on the subject matter, style, or other broader literary characteristics 
Types of genres: 
    Narrative poetry -  Narrative poetry is a genre of poetry that tells a story. Broadly it subsumes epic poetry, but the term 'narrative poetry' is often reserved for smaller works, generally with more appeal to human interest. Narrative poetry may be the oldest type of poetry. Notable narrative poets have included Ovid, Dante, Juan Ruiz, William Langland, Chaucer, Fernando de Rojas, Luís de Camões, Shakespeare, Alexander Pope, Robert Burns, Adam Mickiewicz, Alexander Pushkin, Letitia Elizabeth Landon, Edgar Allan Poe, Alfred Tennyson, and Anne Carson.
    Lyric poetry - Lyric poetry is a genre that, unlike epic and dramatic poetry, does not attempt to tell a story but instead is of a more personal nature. Poems in this genre tend to be shorter, melodic, and contemplative. Rather than depicting characters and actions, it portrays the poet's own feelings, states of mind, and perceptions.  Notable poets in this genre include Christine de Pizan, John Donne, Charles Baudelaire, Gerard Manley Hopkins, Antonio Machado, and Edna St. Vincent Millay. 
    Epic Poetry -  Epic poetry is a genre of poetry, and a major form of narrative literature. This genre is often defined as lengthy poems concerning events of a heroic or important nature to the culture of the time. It recounts, in a continuous narrative, the life and works of a heroic or mythological person or group of persons. Examples of epic poems are Homer's Iliad and Odyssey, Virgil's Aeneid, the Nibelungenlied. While the composition of epic poetry, and of long poems generally, became less common in the west after the early 20th century, some notable epics have continued to be written. The Cantos by Ezra Pound, Helen in Egypt by H.D., and Paterson by William Carlos Williams are examples of modern epics.
    Satirical Poetry -  Poetry can be a powerful vehicle for satire. The Romans had a strong tradition of satirical poetry, often written for political purposes. A notable example is the Roman poet Juvenal's satires. The same is true of the English satirical tradition. John Dryden (a Tory), the first Poet Laureate, produced in 1682 Mac Flecknoe, subtitled 'A Satire on the True Blue Protestant Poet, T.S'. (a reference to Thomas Shadwell)
    Elegy -  An elegy is a mournful, melancholy or plaintive poem, especially a lament for the dead or a funeral song. The term 'elegy,' which originally denoted a type of poetic meter (elegiac meter - one line of poetry in dactylic hexameter followed by a line in dactylic pentameter), commonly describes a poem of mourning. An elegy may also reflect something that seems to the author to be strange or mysterious. The elegy, as a reflection on a death, on a sorrow more generally, or on something mysterious, may be classified as a form of lyric poetry. Notable practitioners of elegiac poetry have included Propertius, Jorge Manrique, Jan Kochanowski, Chidiock Tichborne, Edmund Spenser, Ben Jonson, John Milton, William Cullen Bryant, Percy Bysshe Shelley, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Alfred Tennyson, Walt Whitman, William Butler Yeats, Rainer Maria Rilke, and Virginia Woolf.
    Verse fable -  The fable is an ancient literary genre, often (though not invariably) set in verse. It is a succinct story that features anthropomorphised animals, legendary creatures, plants, inanimate objects, or forces of nature that illustrate a moral lesson. Verse fables have used a variety of meter and rhyme patterns. Notable verse fabulists have included Aesop 
    Dramatic Poetry:  Dramatic poetry is drama written in verse to be spoken or sung, and appears in varying, sometimes related forms in many cultures. Greek tragedy in verse dates to the 6th century B.C., and may have been an influence on the development of Sanskrit drama, just as Indian drama in turn appears to have influenced the development of the bianwen verse dramas in China, forerunners of Chinese Opera. American poets of 20th century revive dramatic poetry, including Ezra Pound in 'Sestina: Altaforte,' T.S. Eliot with 'The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock'
    Speculative Poetry:  Speculative poetry, also known as fantastic poetry (of which weird or macabre poetry is a major sub-classification), is a poetic genre which deals thematically with subjects which are 'beyond reality', whether via extrapolation as in science fiction or via weird and horrific themes as in horror fiction. Such poetry appears regularly in modern science fiction and horror fiction magazines. Edgar Allan Poe is sometimes seen as the 'father of speculative poetry'.
    Prose poetry: Prose poetry is a hybrid genre that shows attributes of both prose and poetry. It may be indistinguishable from the micro-story. While some examples of earlier prose strike modern readers as poetic, prose poetry is commonly regarded as having originated in 19th-century France, where its practitioners included Aloysius Bertrand, Charles Baudelaire, Stéphane Mallarmé, and Arthur Rimbaud. Since the late 1980s especially, prose poetry has gained increasing popularity. 
    Light poetry: or light verse, is poetry that attempts to be humorous. Poems considered 'light' are usually brief, and can be on a frivolous or serious subject, and often feature word play, including puns, adventurous rhyme and heavy alliteration.  Notable writers of light poetry include Lewis Carroll, Ogden Nash, X. J. Kennedy, Willard R. Espy, Shel Silverstein, Gavin Ewart and Wendy Cope.
    Slam Poetry:  Slam poetry as a genre originated in 1986 in Chicago, Illinois, when Marc Kelly Smith organized the first slam. Slam performers comment emotively, aloud before an audience, on personal, social, or other matters. Slam focuses on the aesthetics of word play, intonation, and voice inflection. 
    Citation:  'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poetry#'