The word rhyme can be used in a specific and a general sense. In the specific sense, two words rhyme if their final stressed vowel and all following sounds are identical; two lines of poetry rhyme if their final strong positions are filled with rhyming words. 
Perfect rhymes:  a form of rhyme between two words or phrases in which The stressed vowel sound in both words must be identical, as well as any subsequent sounds. For example, the words kit and bit form a perfect rhyme, as do spaghetti and already in American accents and the onset of the stressed syllable in the words must differ. For example, pot and hot are a perfect rhyme, while leave and believe are not. Word pairs that satisfy the first condition but not the second (such as the aforementioned leave and believe) are technically identities (also known as identical rhymes or identicals). Homophones, being words of different meaning but identical pronunciation, are an example of identical rhyme. Types of perfect rhyme include: 
    single, also known as masculine: a rhyme in which the stress is on the final syllable of the words (rhyme, sublime) 
    double, also known as feminine: a rhyme in which the stress is on the penultimate (second from last) syllable of the words (picky, tricky) 
    dactylic: a rhyme in which the stress is on the antepenultimate (third from last) syllable (amorous, glamorous) 
    Feminine and dactylic rhymes may also be realized as compound (or mosaic) rhymes (poet, know it). 
 
General rhymes:  
In the general sense, general rhyme can refer to various kinds of phonetic similarity between words, and the use of such similar-sounding words in organizing verse. Rhymes in this general sense are classified according to the degree and manner of the phonetic similarity: 
syllabic: a rhyme in which the last syllable of each word sounds the same but does not necessarily contain stressed vowels. (cleaver, silver, or pitter, patter; the final syllable of the words bottle and fiddle is /l/, a liquid consonant.) 
    imperfect (or near): a rhyme between a stressed and an unstressed syllable. (wing, caring) 
    weak (or unaccented): a rhyme between two sets of one or more unstressed syllables. (hammer, carpenter) 
    semirhyme: a rhyme with an extra syllable on one word. (bend, ending) 
    forced (or oblique): a rhyme with an imperfect match in sound. (green, fiend; one, thumb) 
    assonance: matching vowels. (shake, hate) Assonance is sometimes referred to as slant rhymes, along with consonance. 
    consonance: matching consonants. (rabies, robbers) 
    half rhyme (or slant rhyme): matching final consonants. (hand , lend) 
    pararhyme: all consonants match. (tick, tock) 
    alliteration (or head rhyme): matching initial consonants. (ship, short) 
 
Identical Rhymes:  If the sound preceding the stressed vowel is also identical, the rhyme is sometimes considered to be inferior and not a perfect rhyme after all. An example of such a super-rhyme or 'more than perfect rhyme' is the identical rhyme, in which not only the vowels but also the onsets of the rhyming syllables are identical, as in gun and begun. Punning rhymes, such as bare and bear are also identical rhymes. The rhyme may extend even farther back than the last stressed vowel. If it extends all the way to the beginning of the line, so that there are two lines that sound very similar or identical, it is called a holorhyme ('For I scream/For ice cream')
Eye Rhyme:  Eye rhymes or sight rhymes or spelling rhymes refer to similarity in spelling but not in sound where the final sounds are spelled identically but pronounced differently. Examples in English are cough, bough, and love, move. 
Mind rhyme:  Mind rhyme is a kind of substitution rhyme similar to rhyming slang, but it is less generally codified and is 'heard' only when generated by a specific verse context. For instance, 'this sugar is neat / and tastes so sour.' If a reader or listener anticipates the word 'sweet' instead of 'sour', a mind rhyme has occurred.
 
Rhymes may additionally be classified according to their position in the verse: 
    Tail rhyme (also called end rhyme or rime couée) is a rhyme in the final syllable(s) of a verse (the most common kind). 
    Internal rhyme occurs when a word or phrase in the interior of a line rhymes with a word or phrase at the end of a line, or within a different line. 
    Off-centered rhyme is a type of internal rhyme occurring in unexpected places in a given line. This is sometimes called a misplaced-rhyme scheme or a spoken word rhyme style. 
    Holorime, mentioned above, occurs when two entire lines have the same sound. 
    Echo rhyme occurs when the same syllable endings are utilized (example: disease/ease). 
    Broken rhyme is a type of enjambement producing a rhyme by dividing a word at the line break of a poem to make a rhyme with the end word of another line. 
    Cross rhyme matches a sound or sounds at the end of a line with the same sound or sounds in the middle of the following (or preceding) line. 
Citation: 'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhyme' 


A rhyme scheme is the pattern of rhymes at the end of each line of a poem or song. It is usually referred to by using letters to indicate which lines rhyme; lines designated with the same letter all rhyme with each other. 
Notation:  ABAB – Four-line stanza, first and third lines rhyme at the end, second and fourth lines rhyme at the end 
    AB AB – Two two-line stanzas, with the first lines rhyming at the end and the second lines rhyming at the end. 
    AB,AB – Single two-line stanza, with the two lines having both a single internal rhyme and a conventional rhyme at the end. 
    aBaB – Two different possible meanings for a four-line stanza: First and third lines rhyme at the end, second and fourth lines are repeated verbatim or first and third lines have a feminine rhyme and the second and fourth lines have a masculine rhyme.
    A1abA2 A1abA2 – Two stanzas, where the first lines of both stanzas are exactly the same, and the last lines of both stanzas are the same. The second lines of the two stanzas are different, but rhyme at the end with the first and last lines. (In other words, all the 'A' and 'a' lines rhyme with each other, but not with the 'b' lines.)
    XAXA – Four lines, two unrhymed (X) and two with the same end rhyme (A)
        Ballad stanza: ABCB 
        Ballade: Three stanzas of ABABBCBC followed by BCBC 
        Balliol rhyme: AABB 
        Boy Named Sue: AABCC(B, or infrequently D) 
        Bref double: AXBC XAXC AXAB AB and other schemes, where 'X' represents unrhymed lines
        Burns stanza: AAABAB(B) or AABCCCB
        Canopus: ABABCBC 
        Chant royal: Five stanzas of ababccddedE followed by either ddedE or ccddedE (capital letters represent lines repeated verbatim) 
        Chastushka: ABAB, ABCB, or AABB 
        Cinquain: ABABB 
        Clerihew: AABB 
        Couplet: AA, but usually occurs as AA BB CC DD ... 
        Décima: ABBAACCDDC 
        Double dactyl: XXXA XXXA 
        Enclosed rhyme (or enclosing rhyme): ABBA 
        Englyn: complex structure 
        Keatsian Ode: ABABCDECDE used in Keats' Ode on Indolence, Ode on a Grecian Urn, and Ode to a Nightingale. 
        Klin: complex structure 
        Limerick: AABBA 
        Lutherstrophe: ABABCCB or ABABCCX 
        Mâni: AABA 
        Monorhyme: AAAAA... an identical rhyme on every line, common in Latin and Arabic 
        Octave: ABBA ABBA 
        Onegin stanzas: aBaBccDDeFFeGG with the lowercase letters representing feminine rhymes and the uppercase representing masculine rhymes, written in iambic tetrameter 
        Ottava rima: ABABABCC 
        A quatrain is any four-line stanza or poem. There are 15 possible rhyme sequences for a four-line poem; common rhyme schemes for these include AAAA, AABB, ABAB, ABBA, and ABCB. 
        Rhyme royal: ABABBCC 
        The Road Not Taken stanza: ABAAB as used in Robert Frost's poem The Road Not Taken, and in Glæde over Danmark by Poul Martin Møller.
        Rondeau: ABaAabAB (capital letters represent lines repeated verbatim) 
        Rondelet: AbAabbA (capital letters represent lines repeated verbatim) 
        Roundel: abaB bab abaB (capital letters represent lines repeated verbatim) 
        Rubaiyat: AABA or AAAA 
        Scottish stanza: AAABAB, as used by Robert Burns in works such as 'To a Mouse'
        Sestain: AABBCC, ABABCC, AABCCB, AAABAB, and others
        Sestina: ABCDEF FAEBDC CFDABE ECBFAD DEACFB BDFECA, the seventh stanza is a tercet where line 1 has A in it but ends with D, line 2 has B in it but ends with E, line 3 has C in it but ends with F 
        Sicilian octave: ABABABAB 
        Simple 4-line: ABCB 
        Petrarchan sonnet: ABBA ABBA CDE CDE or ABBA ABBA CDC DCD 
        Shakespearean sonnet: ABAB CDCD EFEF GG 
        Spenserian sonnet: ABAB BCBC CDCD EE 
        Spenserian stanza: ABABBCBCC, where the last line is an alexandrine line
        Tail rhyme: B lines appear intermittently
        Terza rima: ABA BCB CDC ..., ending on YZY Z; YZY ZZ; or YZY ZYZ
        A tristich or tercet is any three-line stanza or poem; common rhyme schemes for these are AAA (triplet) and ABA (enclosed tercet). The only other possibilities for three-line poems are AAB, ABB, and ABC. Multiple tercets can be combined into longer poems, as in the terza rima form. 
        Traditional rhyme: ABAB CDCD EFEF GHGH... 
        Triolet: ABaAabAB and others (capital letters represent lines repeated verbatim) 
        Triplet: AAA, often repeating such as: AAA BBB CCC DDD... 
        Trova: XAXA 
        Villanelle: A1bA2 abA1 abA2 abA1 abA2 abA1A2, where A1 and A2 are lines repeated exactly which rhyme with the 'a' lines 
Citation: 'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhyme_scheme' 